---
layout: post
title:  "RcppCWB v0.2.6 at CRAN: Towards publishing cwbtools"
date:   2018-10-25
author: Andreas Blätte
categories: Posts
tags: news
---

<script>
  function resizeIframe(obj) {
    obj.style.height = obj.contentWindow.document.body.scrollHeight + 'px';
  }
</script>


# RcppCWB v0.2.6 at CRAN: Towards publishing cwbtools

This week, a new version of *RcppCWB* made it to [CRAN](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=RcppCWB). The package exposes the functionality of the Corpus Worbench, adding a limited number of performance-critical functions written in Rcpp/C++. Packages such as *polmineR* are built on top of *RcppCWB* and serve as a much more comfortable "front-end".

The new RcppCWB version exposes two new functions:

* The *cl_charset_name()*-function is about performance and efficiency. It gives access to the information on the encoding of a corpus kept in memory after the registry file describing the corpus has been parsed. Now, to check the encoding, the registry files needs not be read and parsed again and again, resulting in a performance gain. The new function is a model for further similar functions that will replace inefficient functionality to read and parse registry files in the *polmineR* package.

* The *cl_delete_corpus()* is at least as important. It is all about flexibility. With this function, the parsed information from a registry file can be removed from memory, so that the registry file is parsed afresh upon using a corpus the next time. The scenario for this function is that we want changes we made for a corpus to become effective. Particularly when we add new structural attributes to a corpus, we now do not have to restart our R session to make the changed attribute available. This is really important to see indexed corpora not only as efficient data, but as reasonably flexible data too.

The *cl_delete_corpus()* function is part of a development to make further use of *RcppCWB* as a backend for the *cwbtools* package, available only at [GitHub](https://www.github.com/PolMine/cwbtools) at this stage. The package is not yet mature, but is intended to supplement *Rcpp* and *polmineR* to have a seamless interface between R and the Corpus Workbench, and to be move beyond a static view of indexed corpora, i.e. to turn them into a much more flexbile resource than they are so far. Adding usability and flexibility to efficiency will be the purpose of *cwbtools*.
