---
layout: post
title:  "cwbtools v0.3.1 'Straight No Chaser' Released"
date:   2020-07-21
author: Andreas Blätte
output: 
  md_document:
    preserve_yaml: true
categories: Posts
tags: news
---

cwbtools v0.3.1 ‘Straight No Chaser’ Released
=============================================

A new version of [cwbtools](https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=cwbtools)
(v0.3.1) is available at CRAN.

The single change I want to highlight here is that the polmineR package
is not a (weak) dependency of cwbtools any more. The initial thrust for
that was to contain negative effects if polmineR can not be built for a
platform. Issues are more tricky to handle as long as polmineR depends
on cwbtools and cwbtools depends (though weakly) on polmineR.

We now have a clarified struture that - within the PolMine family of
packages - polmineR depends on cwbtools and cwbtools depends on RcppCWB.
That’s it, straight no chaser. And this explains the naming of the new
release.

Avoiding the polmineR dependency required replacing usage of some
high-level polmineR functions by lower-level functionality of the
RcppCWB package. Functions and unit tests have been re-written
accordingly. There is no change visible for the user. The only visible
changes concern some minor improvements of the user dialogues, see the
[cwbtools changelog](https://polmine.github.io/cwbtools/news/index.html)
if you are interested in the details.

Looking into the future, cwbtools v0.3.1 prepares an upcoming release of
the GermaParl package. This package will offer download functionality to
install GermaParl from Zenodo (an open science data repository used for
depositing PolMine corpora), and it includes a small subset of GermaParl
for testing purposes. While the download functionality is not strictly
necessary (it is just a thin wrapper for `cwbtools::corpus_install()`),
the sample data within the package shall be very useful to make polmineR
a leaner package that can rely on the GermaParl package for sample data.

The structure of dependencies we aim at will then be: polmineR depends
on GermaParl and cwbtools, GermaParl depends on cwbtools, and cwbtools
(as well as polmineR) depends on RcppCWB. So this will be a structure
without any circularity. The current cwbtools release v0.3.1 “Straight
No Chaser” has prepared exactly that.
